---
title: "Notice regarding obstetric treatment"
date: 2026-03-12
categories: ["Notice regarding obstetric treatment", "staff", "All", "From obstetrics and gynecology"]
description: "1. “About painless childbirth” Our hospital has started implementing painless childbirth from April 2023. However, we ar"
---

1. “About painless childbirth” Our hospital has started implementing painless childbirth from April 2023. However, we are not open 24 hours a day, but only on weekdays and during the day, and are limited to the range and number of cases that allow sufficient safety considerations, so please check the "Obstetrics Information" page for an overview and consult us for details when you visit the clinic. *Please note that we do not accept any telephone inquiries regarding painless childbirth.

2. "Abrisbo (RS virus maternal and child immunization vaccine) vaccination" From August 2024, pregnant women undergoing prenatal check-ups at our hospital will be able to receive Abrisvo (RS virus maternal and child immunization vaccine) vaccination at the time of their visit. If you are interested, please refer to the "Obstetrics and Gynecology" notice section and ask for details when you visit the outpatient clinic.

3. "About the start of Saturday prenatal checkups" From May 2024, we have started "Saturday prenatal checkups"! In consideration of working pregnant women and their families, starting in May 2024, our hospital will be able to offer prenatal checkups on Saturday mornings. For more information, please see the "Obstetrics Guide" and inquire at the time of your outpatient visit.

4. "About resuming attended births" At our hospital, we have temporarily suspended attended births in order to prioritize safe births during the coronavirus pandemic, but in consideration of the social situation and the feelings of expectant mothers and their families, we have decided to resume with sufficient infection prevention measures in place. From October 12, 2022, we have resumed ``attended births'' and ``brief parent-child visits immediately after birth.'' Please check the details and conditions of attendance at the time of your pregnancy checkup.

5. "Resuming the ability of family members to accompany pregnant women during prenatal check-ups" As a measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, we have restricted the number of family members who can attend prenatal check-ups, but from August 1, 2023, we have decided to ease the restrictions on families accompanying pregnant women. ★Adult family member: Only one person may accompany you (both morning and afternoon). However, if you have a fever or cold symptoms, please refrain from visiting the clinic. ★Bringing children: If you would like to bring your children, please make a reservation for the "Afternoon Prenatal Checkup" for the time being. However, if you have a fever or cold symptoms, please refrain from accompanying them. Please also note that midwives and nurses will not be able to take care of your child during the medical examination.

6. "Resuming the ability for family members to be present during fetal 4D echo outpatient visits" As a measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, we have been restricting family members from attending fetal 4D echo outpatient visits, but from August 1, 2023, we have decided to ease the restrictions on families accompanying their patients. ★Adult family member: Only one person may be brought along. However, if you have a fever or cold symptoms, please refrain from visiting the clinic. ★Bringing children: You may bring children, but please refrain from bringing them if they have a fever or cold symptoms. Please also note that clinical laboratory technicians will not be able to take care of your child during the examination.

7. "Temporary suspension of various classes in obstetrics" Our hospital has suspended various classes since mid-March 2020 as part of measures to prevent coronavirus infection. We appreciate your understanding as we will continue to suspend ``Chick Class'' for a while. Once we have a plan to reopen, we will contact pregnant women who are currently attending the hospital.

8. ``About resuming maternity classes'' In order to provide peace of mind to pregnant women who are anxious because they do not know the progress of pregnancy and childbirth, we have resumed classes with important points (the usual 3 classes have been combined into 1 class) while taking sufficient measures to prevent infection. From June 2026, participants are not only primiparous and multiparous women who are planning to give birth at our hospital, but also their husbands. To make a reservation, please make a reservation at the time of your prenatal checkup or by calling the hospital's main phone number.

Hospital main phone number: 03-5343-5611

Event date: Please confirm when making a reservation. Time: 13:30-15:30 Venue: Multipurpose hall on the 2nd floor of the new building Tuition fee: 1,000 yen

9. "When you or a family member living with you tests positive for coronavirus during pregnancy" If you or your family member is found to be infected with the new coronavirus through a test conducted outside of our hospital, or if you or a member of your family has symptoms that suggest infection, please call the outpatient midwife before coming to the outpatient clinic for an appointment (during business hours on weekdays). Depending on the situation, we will consult with you about changing your appointment date and time or providing home treatment.
